---
title: "Improving soft pneumatic actuator fingers through integration of soft sensors, position and force control, and rigid fingernails."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2016-05-01-Morrow2016
date: 2016-05-01
venue: IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA)
---

**Blurb:** This paper is about modifying soft pneumatic actuators with liquid metal sensors (for proprioception and fingerpad force feedback) and fingernails (for improved grasping ability). We also demonstrate position and force control on the hand.

**Abstract:** Soft Pneumatic Actuators (SPAs) have recently become popular for use as fingers in robotic hands because of their inherent compliance, low cost, and ease of construction. We seek to overcome two key limitations which limit SPAs' abilities to grasp and manipulate objects: 1) Current SPAs lack position or force sensor feedback, which prevents controlling them precisely (e.g. to achieve a hand preshape or apply a specified pushing force), and 2) the tip of the SPA is compliant and has high friction against common surfaces, causing the SPA to stick against surfaces when grasping objects from above. To overcome the first limitation we propose methods to integrate soft eGaIn sensors into SPAs and controllers that use these sensors' feedback for position and force control. To overcome the second limitation, we explore embedding rigid fingernails into the tip of the SPA so that the finger does not stick against surfaces and can wedge under objects. Our experiments suggest that we can achieve low steady-state error and overshoot in position and force using feed-forward models that relate pressure, force, and curvature along with a PID controller. We also compare several fingernail designs and show that the best-performing design significantly outperforms having no fingernails when grasping a set of common objects from a table.

**Citation:** Morrow, J., Shin, H.S., Phillips-Grafflin, C., Jang, S.H., Torrey, J., Larkins, R., Dang, S., Park, Y.L. and Berenson, D., 2016, May. Improving soft pneumatic actuator fingers through integration of soft sensors, position and force control, and rigid fingernails. In IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), (pp. 5024-5031). IEEE.
